--name=psqall.sh
--release=1.1
--date=November 2012
--section=1
--center=Useful Shell Script

=head1 NAME

B<psqall.sh> - execute SQL commands on more databases

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<psqall.sh> [B<-d>|B<-D> I<database> [I<...>]] [B<-L>] [B<-i> I<inifile>] I<psql-param> [I<...>]

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-d> I<database>, B<--dbname=>I<database>

execute the commands on this database ( default : all )

=item B<-D> I<database>, B<--exclude=>I<database>

skip this database ( default : none )

=item B<-L> B<--line-prefix>

display the database name as prefix in each result line ( default : no )

=item B<-i> I<inifile>, B<--inifile=>I<inifile>

configuration file ( default : F<psqall.ini> )

=item I<psql-param>

parameters that psql(1) accepts ( default : none )

=back

In either case the databases can be specified by name or regular expression which matches their name. Both B<-d> and B<-D> can be repeated, B<-d> takes precedence over
B<-D>.

The default configuration file called F<psqall.ini> is always processed, unless empty string is specified as inifile.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<psqall.sh> is intended to be a small tool for automating some database related activities.

Mainly was written to give fast overviews in case there are many test databases on a development server, all with similar structure but slightly different data.

Also can be used to execute some database updates on all the available databases.

=head1 SYNTAX

The configuration file is has .ini format, but it actually is more relaxed :

=over 4

=item *

comments may begin with either B<#> or B<;>

=item *

keys and values may be separated by either B<=>, B<:> or space

=item *

sections are ignored ( lines starting with B<[> are treated like comments )

=back

A typical configuration file looks like this :

  [database]
  include=.*_test
  exclude=template1

  [output]
  lineprefix=1

The following keys are handled :

=over 4

=item B<include>

Similar with the B<-d> command line option, specifies database to execute the statements on.

=item B<exclude>

Similar with the B<-D> command line option, specifies database to skip from execution.

=item B<lineprefix>

Similar with the B<-L> command line option, specifies whether the output format should be line prefixed.

When its value is anything else than empty string and I<0>, line prefixed format gets turned on.

=back

When the I<database> specified with the B<-d> or B<-D> switch or the B<include> or B<exclude> configuration key contains one of the C<.>, C<?>, C<*>, C<+>, C<(>, C<)>,
C<[>, C<]>, C<{> and C<}> metacharacters, it will be interpreted as regular expression and matched case insensitively against the database names, otherwise will be
interpreted as string and compared case sensitively with the database names.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

The environment variables accepted by psql(1) can be set. Setting B<PGDATABASE> is pointless as it will be always overridden by parameter.

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F<psqall.ini>

The default configuration file. Actually has the same name as the script, but with extension changed to ".ini".

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

bash(1), psql(1)

=head1 TO DO

Maybe handling of joined short parameters.

=head1 BUGS

No bugs until now. Found bugs can be reported to the author.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Use it healthy.

=head1 AUTHOR

Feherke

=cut
