--name=mpc.sh
--release=1.1
--date=August 2008
--section=1
--center=Useful Shell Script

=head1 NAME

B<mksfx.sh> - make SelFeXtractor archive

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mksfx.sh> [B<-x> I<sfxname>] [B<-c> I<compression>] [B<-r> I<runname>] [I<directory>]

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item I<directory>

name of the directory to compress ( default : current directory )

=item B<-x> I<sfxname>, B<--sfx=>I<sfxname>

file name to create ( default : same as for directory )

=item B<-c> I<compression>, B<--compress=>I<compression>

compression method, could be : B<gzip>, B<bzip2> ( default : B<gzip> )

=item B<-r> I<runname>, B<--run=>I<runname>

name of the file to run after uncompressing ( default : run.sh )

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Compress the archived content of a directory, then add an autoextract head to the file, so it will look and act as a bash(1) script. The executable head is kept small
and simple, so there are no paranoia checkings included.

When the current directory is compressed, the script will exclude itself from the archive.

When the selfextractor is executed, it's header part will decompress it's data part to a random named temporary directory in the F</tmp/> directory, then if an autorun
script exist, will run it.

=head1 SEE ALSO

bash(1), gzip(1), bzip2(1), tar(1);  sed(1), grep(1), mktemp(1)

=head1 TO DO

Is somehow strange the use of the temporary directory, so it probably will be made optional. Also optionally some integrity check would be nice.

=head1 BUGS

No bugs until now. Found bugs can be reported to the author.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Use it healthy.

=head1 AUTHOR

Feherke

=cut
