--name=killrenegade.sh
--release=1.2
--date=August 2008
--section=1
--center=Useful Shell Script

=head1 NAME

B<killrenegade.sh> - kill processes exceeding limits

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<killrenegade.sh> [B<-i> I<inifile>] [B<-V>]

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-i> I<inifile>, B<--ini=>I<inifile>

settings file to be read ( default : B<killrenegade.ini> )

=item B<-V>, B<--verbose>

verbose mode, use twice for more verbose ( default : no )

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Kill the processes with given name which uses too much resources.

The script run endlessly, checking for processes that match the given conditions. Between steps will sleep until the next scheduled hunt time. Building the statistic is
done when awake for a check.

=head1 SYNTAX

In the settings file are separate sections for each job. Exception is the I<general> section, which contains just some preferences. The other sections describe a
process hunting each, excepting the section I<default>. It contains default values to use if in a section some options are not set.

The section names are only identifiers, the keys in each section could be :

=over

=item B<command>

command name to kill, can not be empty

=item B<user>

list of users desired to be treated different than othes

=item B<belong>

ownership relation of users in the list and processes :

=over

=item I<yes>

kill only processes owned by the enumerated users

=item I<no>

do not kill processes owned by the enumerated users

=back

=item B<processor>

percentage of processor usage, over which processes will be killed

=item B<memory>

percentage of memory usage, over which processes will be killed

=item B<signal>

list of signals to send to the processes; if a send fails, the next signal will be sent

=item B<interval>

sleeping interval between checks; the script will wake up only when is time to hunt

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over

=item B<0>

ok, done successfull

=item B<1>

the settings file was not found

=item B<2>

the settings file contains errors

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item B<USER>

the current user's name is used to see who's processes can be killed; if is not root, can kill only own processes

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F<killrenegade.ini>

in facts is the name of the script with extension changed to .ini

=item F<killstatistic.awk>

an awk(1) script to build HTML statistic from the plain text log file

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

bash(1), kill(1), ps(1);
sleep(1), awk(1)

comments in F<killrenegade.ini>, I hope you kept a clear copy

=head1 TO DO

Maybe a clemency option, to not kill processes the first time they are caught over limit.

=head1 BUGS

No bugs until now. Found bugs can be reported to the author.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Use it healthy.

=head1 AUTHOR

Feherke
