--name=minesweeper.sh
--release=1.1
--date=August 2008
--section=6
--center=Text mode game

=head1 NAME

B<minesweeper.sh> - the classic game in text mode

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<minesweeper.sh>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The conceptually good games are not tied to the graphic environment or fancy input devices. And they absolutely not need cheap visual effects. In text mode you can
enjoy the real flavour of the game.

=head1 OPTIONS

none

=head1 RULES

The board is composed by square of stones and a number of randomly placed mines, under the stones. The goal is to mark all the mined stones with flags. When you step on
a stone, if under that one is a mine, you die and the game is over. Else the stone is removed. If there is no mine neighter under the nearest stones, then they will be
also removed, until a mine is aproached. In the place of the removed stones a number will appear which shows how many of the nearest stones are mined.

=head1 KEYS

For the movements more keys are associated ( Beside this, also the arrow keys should work. ) :

  layout    left  down  up  right  step   flag
  Vi        B<h>     B<j>     B<k>   B<l>      B<g>      B<f>
  Lefthand  B<a>     B<s>     B<w>   B<d>      B<Space>  B<f>
  Numeric   B<4>     B<2>     B<8>   B<6>      B<Enter>  B<0>

The size of the board is choosen by the key used to start a new game, as follows :

  key  board   size   mines
  n    Small   10*10  15
  N    Medium  15*15  33
  m    Large   20*20  60
  M    Extra   30*20  90

And some other keys :

  key  command
  r    redraw the board
  q    quit the script

=head1 SEE ALSO

bash(1), tput(1), terminfo(5)

=head1 TO DO

Would be nice to keep the high scores somewhere.

=head1 BUGS

Probably the key handling will not work on some terminals.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Use it healthy.

=head1 AUTHOR

Feherke
