--name=mpc.sh
--release=1.6
--date=May 2011
--section=1
--center=Useful Shell Script

=head1 NAME

B<mpc.sh> - simple frontend for the mpc client for mpd

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mpc.sh> [B<main>|B<playlist>]

=head1 OPTIONS

The script is intended to be used in graphic environment, without involving dialog utilities. It "draws" its interface to the standard output and uses xterm(1) for holding it.
As the command run inside an xterm(1) instance is a separate process, the parameters are used to communicate to the child process which window to draw.

=over

=item B<main>

Display the main window.

=item B<playlist>

Display the playlist window.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Just a rudimental frontend for the most basic music playing functionalities.

Its interface is composed by two windows : the main window containing the common playback controls and the playlist dialog containing the playlist window loading funtionality.

=head2 The main window

The following commands can be executed with a single key press :

=over

=item B<z>

Starts playing previous song. ( B<mpc> B<prev> )

=item B<x>

Starts playing. ( B<mpc> B<play> )

=item B<c>

Pauses playing. ( B<mpc> B<pause> )

=item B<v>

Stops playing. ( B<mpc> B<stop> )

=item B<b>

Starts playing next song on playlist. ( B<mpc> B<next> )

=item B<r>

Toggle repeat mode. ( B<mpc> B<repeat> )

=item B<s>

Toggle random mode. ( B<mpc> B<random> )

=item B<i>

Toggle single mode. ( B<mpc> B<single> ) ( Requires mpd(1) version 0.16. )

=item B<a>

Jumps back to current song's beginninge. ( B<mpc> B<seek 0%>)

=item B<f>

Toggle crossfade. ( B<mpc> B<crossfade> B<0>|B<2> )

=item B<m> B<1> B<2> B<3> B<4> B<5> B<6> B<7> B<8> B<9> B<0> B<+> B<->

Sets the volume to a value based on the pressed key : 0% for B<m>, 100% for B<0> or the key's numeric value multiplied with 10 for the rest. The B<+> and B<-> increments
and decrements the volume with 10%. ( B<mpc> B<volume> [B<+>|B<->]I<value> )

=item B<p>

Open the playlist window. ( B<mpc> B<lsplaylists>, B<mpc> B<clear>, B<mpc> B<load> I<playlist> )

=item B<?>

Open the status information window. ( B<mpc> B<version>, B<mpc> B<help>, B<mpc> B<stats> )

=back

If no command is executed in 5 seconds or other key is pressed, the script exits doing nothing.

=head2 The playlist window

The list of playlists is limited to 260 entries, displayed on 10 pages, 26 entries on each page.

=over

=item B<1> B<2> B<3> B<4> B<5> B<6> B<7> B<8> B<9> B<0> B<+> B<->

Changes to a given page by number for numeric keys. Page numbering starts from 1 and ends with 0, meaning 10. ( Quite dumb, but at least similar with the volume changer.
) The B<+> and B<-> changes to the next/previous page.

=item B<a> .. B<z>

Clears the current playlist then loads the playlist assigned to the given letter.

=item B<A> .. B<Z>

Loads the playlist assigned to the given letter.

=back

If no command is executed in 15 seconds or other key is pressed, the script exits doing nothing.

In both windows, after the command is executed, the script exits so the "interface" disappears. The visual effect may be visible only the next time :

=head2 The status information window

Displays the server, the client and the script version.

=over

=item

The B<z>, B<b> and B<a> commands are like push buttons : the commands are executed without persistent effect.

=item

The B<x>, B<c> and B<v> commands are like radio buttons : one of them is always active.

=item

The B<r>, B<s>, B<i> and B<f> commands are like checkboxes : each can be set or cleared independently.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

mpd(1), mpc(1), xterm(1), sort(1), wc(1), sed(1)

=head1 TO DO

A few minor configuration pieces for the terminal would be nice.

( Remove the playlist limitation, if I will have a good idea for it. ) Rethink the playlist list paging and maybe remove it.

Implement some simple sticker operations.

=head1 BUGS

No bugs until now. Found bugs can be reported to the author.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Use it healthy.

=head1 AUTHOR

Feherke

=cut
