--name=buzz.sh
--release=1.3
--date=February 2013
--section=1
--center=Useful Shell Script

=head1 NAME

B<buzz.sh> - displays a predefined message at a given time

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<buzz.sh> I<time>

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item I<time> absolute or relative time, as required by at(1) :

=over

=item I<H> I<day-part>

=item I<HH:MM> [I<month-name> I<DD> [I<YY>[I<YY>]]]

=item I<HH:MM DD.MM.YY>

=item B<now +> I<count time-unit>

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Schedules an at(1) job to pop up a message using various commands.

Currently the following commands are supported : xmessage(1), Xdialog(1), kdialog(1), gdialog(1), zenity(1), yad(1), gxmessage(1), gtkdialog(1), xterm(1), eterm(1),
aterm(1), terminal(1), konsole(1), vte(1), rxvt(1), gnome-terminal(1). If none of the commands is found, the message be simply written to B<stdout>, letting the daemon
to deliver it to the local mailbox.

This script was optimized for simplicity, there is no explicit configuration. However the order of checking for the above commands and the predefined message can be
easily modified in the script itself.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item B<DISPLAY>

The value of the current DISPLAY is set for the job. If not set, displaying the message by the atd(8) will probably fail.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

bash(1), at(1);
xmessage(1), Xdialog(1), kdialog(1), gdialog(1), zenity(1), yad(1), gxmessage(1), gtkdialog(1),
xterm(1), eterm(1), aterm(1), terminal(1), konsole(1), vte(1), rxvt(1), gnome-terminal(1)

=head1 TO DO

Add more commands to display the messages.

Better configuration for the currently used commands.

=head1 BUGS

No bugs until now. Found bugs can be reported to the author.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Use it healthy.

=head1 AUTHOR

Feherke
