--name=cookieclean.sh
--release=1.3
--date=September 2008
--section=1
--center=Useful Shell Script

=head1 NAME

B<cookieclean.sh> - cleans up the Mozilla cookie file removing unwanted items

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cookieclean.sh>

=head1 OPTIONS

none

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Just removes those cookies from the Mozilla cookie files which hosts are not enumerated in the permitted hosts file.
This way your access to sites depending on cookies is not blocked but the unneccessary cookies disappears overnight.
Also the cookies which store useful information for you will remain.

This script was designed to be run from cron, so it outputs its messages to a log file.
Excepting of course unexpected and unhandled errors...

=head1 SYNTAX

=head2 Configuration file

Lines starting with hash ( # ) are comments. Comments and empty lines are ignored.

=over

=item B<mozilla>

Path to the profile directory ( deprecated, use B<profile> key ).
This was kept for backward compatibility only. Unlike B<profile>, it can be specified only once.

  mozilla=/home/master/.mozilla/default/v5rkwo4n.slt/

=item B<profile>

Path to the profile directory of a Mozilla browser ( Mozilla, Phoenix, FireBird, SeaMonkey, FireFox )
You can use multiple B<profile> keys. At least one must be specified. ( Unless you use the deprecated B<mozilla> key. )

  profile=/home/master/.mozilla/firefox/xie5eflf.default/
  profile=/home/master/.mozilla/seamonkey/e81zpwiz.default/
  profile=/home/master/.phoenix/default/10z08gzf.slt/
  profile=/home/master/.gnome2/epiphany/

=item B<okfile>

File containing the list of permitted hosts ( see B<Permitted host file> below ).
The file's existance is mandatory. If the key is not specified, it defaults to the script name with "-ok.txt" suffix appended.

  okfile=${scriptdir}/cookieclean.ok

=item B<badfile>

File containing the list of found unpermitted hosts. It has the format of a F<cookies.txt> file, even if was extracted from an SQLite database.
If the key is not specified, it defaults to the script name with "-bad.txt" suffix appended.

  badfile=${scriptdir}/cookieclean.bad

=item B<logfile>

Activity log file. It contains information about how the script accomplished its job or why not.
If the key is not specified, it defaults to the script name with ".log" suffix appended.

  logfile=${scriptdir}/${scriptname}.log

=item B<cachefile>

The cached expression of the transformed permitted host list. It is suitable for easier processing of a F<cookies.txt> file.
If the key is not specified, it defaults to the script name with "-cache.txt" suffix appended.

  cachefile=/tmp/${scriptname}-cache.txt

=item B<cachefile3>

The cached expression of the transformed permitted host list. It is suitable for easier processing of a F<cookies.sqlite> database.
If the key is not specified, it defaults to the script name with "-cache3.txt" suffix appended.

  cachefile3=/tmp/${scriptname}-cache3.txt

=back

=head2 Permitted hosts file

Lines starting with hash ( # ) are comments. Comments and empty lines are ignored.

Each line of the file contains a host name as it appears in the cookie. So leading subdomain, dot ( . ) or nothing is significant.

To specify no host, use a dash ( - ) alone in its line.

  -
  tek-tips.com
  rootshell.be

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over

=item B<0>

ok, done successfully

=item B<1>

ini file not found

=item B<2>

ok file not found

=item B<3>

no profile defined

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

The usual environment variables can be used in the configuration file.

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F<cookieclean.ini>

The configuration file. Actually its name is composed from the script's name and ".ini" extension.

=item F<cookieclean.ok>

The list of permitted hosts. Actually its name is set in the configuration file.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

bash(1), sqlite3(1), grep(1), sed(1)

Comments in F<cookieclean.ini>, I hope you kept a clean copy.

=head1 TO DO

Protection against SQL injection.

Maybe an automatically generated cleaning statistic.

=head1 BUGS

No bugs until now. Found bugs can be reported to the author.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Use it healthy.

=head1 AUTHOR

Feherke

=cut
