--name=onceaday.sh
--release=1.1
--date=August 2008
--section=1
--center=Useful Shell Script

=head1 NAME

B<onceaday.sh> - run commands only once a day

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<onceaday.sh> [B<-d> I<date>] [B<-a>] [B<-f>] [B<-n>] [B<-s>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

onceaday.sh is kind of reminder organizer. The idea way to have some commands runned each day only once and when the user is at the computer. To achive this, the easiest
way is to put those commands in the shell's resource file. ( For example in case of bash(1) in then F<~/.bashrc> file. )

But a so simple script would be boring, so for each command a time pattern tells when should that run. ( See B<SYNTAX> below. )

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-d> I<date>, B<--date=>I<date>

Run the commands sheduled for the given date instead of today. This may be any date format accepted by the date(1) command.

=item B<-a>, B<--all>

Run all commands, regardless their scheduling.

=item B<-f>, B<--force>

Force running, even if already runned today.

=item B<-n>, B<--no-touch>

Do not touch the timestamp file, F<~/.onceaday>.

=item B<-s>, B<--show>

Just show the matching commands, do not run them. The commands are displayed as they would be executed, including the source and cat(1) is needed.

=back

The use of B<-d> and B<-a> parameters implicitely set the B<-f> and B<-n> parameters.

=head1 SYNTAX

This section describes the format of the F<onceaday.ini> file. It's name is somehow incorrect because it's format is much similar too crontab(5). With a few differences,
of course.

The empty lines, lines with less then 6 words and lines begining with B<#> ( sharp ) are ignored. Valid lines has the format :

  time_pattern command

The I<time_pattern> is the usual crontab-like 5 value sequence, but probably nobody will use the first two values :

=over

=item I<minute>

0-59

=item I<hour>

0-23

=item I<day of month>

1-31

=item I<month>

1-12

=item I<day of week>

0-6, 0 means Sunday

=back

Each piece of the I<time_pattern> could be:

=over

=item B<*>

asterisk means the hole range of accepted values

=item I<number>

a single value

=item I<list>

two or more numbers separated with B<,> ( comma )

=item I<range>

the minimum and maximum values separated with B<-> ( dash )

=item I<range with step>

a range followed by a step value separated with B</> ( slash ). Note, that B<*> ( asterisk ) acts like a range, so could have a step too.

=back

The I<command> in fact is not restricted to executable commands. It can be :

=over

=item I<script>

File without execute permission will be runned through the source shell bulit-in command.

=item I<text>

File without execute permission and txt extension will be displayed with cat(1) command.

=item I<command>

Anything else will be attempted to run.

=back

Examles of valid time representations ( considered as used for month ) :

  *           1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12    (*)
  1,3         1, 3
  1,3,9       1, 3, 9
  1-3         1, 2, 3
  1-3,9       1, 2, 3, 9
  1-3,5-9     1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
  */2         1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11    (*)
  */2,*/3     1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11    (*)
  1-9/2       1, 3, 5, 7, 9
  1-3,5-9/2   1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9

Examples of lines in my I<onceaday.ini> :

  # every day
  * * * * * fortune
  # January 1 and 2
  * * 1,2 1 * ~/holiday-warning.txt
  # Valentine's day
  * * 14 2 * figlet I hate this day

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item B<HOME>

The B<~> ( tilde ) at the begining of path is substituted with the value of B<HOME> by the script itself.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F<onceaday.ini>

This must be in the same directory where the script is. It's format is very similar to crontab(5) files. ( See B<SYNTAX> above. )

=item F<~/.onceaday>

Is used just to keep the date of last run. The file has 0 size, only it's modification time is tested and touch(1) -ed.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

bash(1), date(1);  sed(1), seq(1)

=head1 TO DO

Abit more error checking and maybe a parameter to print debug information while running.

=head1 BUGS

The spaces in the commands are all treated as delimiters, no way to escape them.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Use it healthy.

=head1 AUTHOR

Feherke

=cut
